adding release notes for 1.28.4 (#17139)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.28.x/announcing-1.28.4/index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.28.4
linktitle: 1.28.4
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.28.4 patch release.
publishdate: 2026-02-16
release: 1.28.4
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.28.4
---

This release contains bug fixes to improve robustness. This release note describes what’s different between Istio 1.28.3 and 1.28.4.

{{< relnote >}}

## Changes

- **Added** an opt-in feature when using istio-cni in ambient mode to create a Istio owned CNI config
file which contains the contents of the primary CNI config file and the Istio CNI plugin. This
opt-in feature is a solution to the issue of traffic bypassing the mesh on node restart when the

> istio cni deamonset is not ready, the Istio CNI plugin is not installed, or the plugin is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
istio cni daemonset is not ready, the Istio CNI plugin is not installed, or the plugin is not
```

invoked to configure traffic redirection from pods their node ztunnels. This feature is enabled by
setting cni.istioOwnedCNIConfig to true in the istio-cni Helm chart values. If no value is set for
cni.istioOwnedCNIConfigFilename, the Istio owned CNI config file will be named 02-istio-cni.conflist.
The istioOwnedCNIConfigFilename must have a higher lexicographical priority than the primary CNI.
Ambient and chained CNI plugins must be enabled for this feature to work.

- **Added** safeguards to the gateway deployment controller to validate object types, names, and namespaces,

> preventing creation of arbitrary Kubernetes resources through template injection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
preventing the creation of arbitrary Kubernetes resources through template injection.
```

  ([Issue #58891](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/58891))

- **Added** a retry mechanism when checking if a pod is ambient enabled in istio-cni.
This is to address potential transient failures resulting in potential mesh bypassing. This feature
is disabled by default and can be enabled by setting `ambient.enableAmbientDetectionRetry` in the
`istio-cni` chart.

- **Added** namespace-based authorization for debug endpoints on port 15014.
Non-system namespaces restricted to config_dump/ndsz/edsz endpoints and same-namespace proxies only.

> Disable with ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false if needed for compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disable with `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` if needed for compatibility.
```

`istio-cni` chart.

- **Added** namespace-based authorization for debug endpoints on port 15014.
Non-system namespaces are restricted to config_dump/ndsz/edsz endpoints and same-namespace proxies only.

> Disable with `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` if needed for compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** namespace-based authorization for debug endpoints on port 15014.
  Non-system namespaces are restricted to `config_dump`/`ndsz`/`edsz` endpoints and same-namespace proxies only.
  Disable with `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` if needed for compatibility.
```

- **Fixed** translation function lookup errors for MeshConfig and MeshNetworks in istioctl
  ([Issue #57967](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/57967))

> - **Fixed** an unreported bug where BackendTLSPolicy status could lose track of the Gateway ancestorRef due to internal index corruption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug where `BackendTLSPolicy` status could lose track of the Gateway `ancestorRef` due to internal index corruption.
```
